All right, lesson three or lesson 1.0.2,
we're going over human psychology.
So previously we went through some case studies
that can serve as inspiration in your process
of coming up with ideas and building apps.
And then we went over the tradeoffs of idea
versus execution and using that framework
with when you're coming up with ideas,
determining which are worth working on and pursuing.
I wanted to start with that
because that will kind of narrow down the set of ideas
that you looked to work on.
But in the process of actually uncovering the ideas
that are valuable and are going to work within that set,
I think the best place to start is human psychology.
Now this is probably the last very theoretical framework
that we are going to go over
before we jump into the actual tangible identification
of problems and ideas to work on.
So to start here, I want you to ignore everything
that you have learned up to this point
about human psychology.
And I want to begin and sort of reteach everything
from a first principle perspective.
Now if you already have a very deep understanding
of psychology, this unit may not be all that important for you.
But I think that it's always very valuable
to go back to the very basics.
What is the biological imperative?
The biological imperative asserts
that every living being exists to pass on its genes.
This drives all biological human
and other life form behavior.
As we see here, this is the fundamental
unit of action that drives every living being.
From single cell organisms, to multi-cell,
to complex life, we all exist to pass on our genes.
Everything that we know about human psychology
and more importantly for building apps,
consumer behavior is just an abstraction of this concept.
Now we see this truth in its most extreme form
through the fact that animals will literally sacrifice
their own survival to reproduce or protect their offspring.
Some animals will die in the process of reproduction.
Like I think salmon is one classic example.
And then others will die to protect their offspring.
This is, this should not come as a surprise
to any of us that are humans.
You know, very classic mythology.
You die, you take the bullet to protect your child.
I would do it, I'm sure most people watching do it.
This would do it.
It's because we want to pass on our genes.
Now this is complex.
It extends beyond just passing on our children.
We want our children to survive and grow up healthy
to continue to pass it down generation after generation.
I think that Maslow's hierarchy of needs
is a very culturally popular,
but also more nuanced representation of this principle.
Biological imperative is very simple.
Maslow's hierarchy of needs
brings this up a couple of levels of abstraction
and develops it further beyond just live and reproduce,
but it says, okay, physiological needs
to continue surviving are most important.
And then safety, security.
And then we get into intimate relationship,
friends, prestige, feelings of accomplishment
and self-actualization at the very top.
The key takeaway here is that survival is solved.
Okay, for the biological imperative,
we exist to pass on our genes.
That means we exist to continue living and to reproduce.
Continue living is solved largely.
Now this isn't true for all humans,
but if you're watching this,
it's solved for you and it's solved for the majority of people
who you are going to target as your customers.
So, since survival is solved,
we should seek to increase the health, status,
meaning and quality/quantity of romantic partners
for our potential customers.
Solve the biggest problems first.
The closer you are to the biological imperative,
the lower you are on the pyramid,
that is Maslow's hierarchy of needs,
the easier it will be to sell your product.
Everything I just said for the past few minutes
boils down to that.
Solve major problems.
Solve the key things that people want to get out of their life.
And I would go so far as to assert
that it is almost always easier and more lucrative,
and higher probability of building a successful product
when you solve 10% of a major problem
rather than 100% of a minor problem.
Okay, so major problems.
Like I stated above here,
the lower we have in Maslow's hierarchy of needs,
the more of a major problem it is.
If, for example, let's set aside apps for a second,
if there exists a marketplace
where people that are coming to this marketplace
don't have reliable sources of food,
then the product that you want to solve
is probably food.
Everybody is going to purchase that from you.
When it comes to software,
physiological and safety needs
are largely not problems that we solve.
So we go to the next most important.
We go to intimate relationships.
We go to status.
We go to health.
It's because health, obviously,
somewhat physiological in nature,
but the health that we're talking about
is increasing feelings of wellness
rather than just survival.
Okay.
So if we want to solve a major problem,
such as finding a romantic partner,
a, this is written wrong, let me edit this real quick,
a 10% solution here would be
an AI dating app that suggests better responses.
Okay.
We go back to the case studies.
This is just Riz.
This is plug AI.
Riz GPT.
Now on the flip side,
if we're not solving major problems,
we're probably solving minor problems.
For example, splitting a dinner bill evenly.
Okay. Now what's like the fundamental problem here?
Something along the lines of fairness.
It's also like saving money, right?
But this is a major abstraction
of the underlying problem of like making money,
which is like related to having high status
and this concept of fairness, right?
It's convoluted.
It's over-intellectualized.
And I want, I want to harp on that word, over-intellectualized.
This is one of the major problems that I see people
experience when they're building consumer applications.
They over-intellectualize and abstract too far out
from the actual underlying problem
that they're trying to solve.
So while an app that calculates and charges everyone
instantly is a 100% solution of this problem,
sure this is a problem a lot of people listening
have come up with,
I've come up with it myself,
it's not strong.
It's not that important.
And when it's not that important,
the probability that people are gonna pay you is very low.
Now you might be listening to this,
reading what I have here on the page,
and you might say,
well, you know, buddy,
I've got plenty of examples of apps
that solve relatively minor problems
that are very successful.
To which I would say that certainly that is the case,
but it's generally more so an exception than it is the rule.
It's pretty rare that you have an app category
that is able to actually contribute
to solving a major problem
that a lot of people experience
and is able to contribute to a large proportion
of those people were the entire app category flops.
So,
as with everything,
there are always exceptions,
both with respect to minor problem,
100% solutions that succeed
in major problem 10% solutions that fail,
but this is a great overarching principle to abide by.
When you're coming up with your ideas,
refer back to the case studies,
refer back to these principles.
Is it solving a major problem
that a lot of people experience,
even if in a minor way?
If you go to a bunch of your friends
and you share with them your idea,
and the overwhelming reaction is like,
oh, well, I mean, yeah, I guess, yeah,
that's a good idea.
No, yeah, you should definitely do that.
They're probably just being supportive.
They probably think that it's a fucking bad idea.
So,
the good ideas are always abundantly obvious.
Okay, now building off of this final thought here,
make people feel, don't make them think,
in line with that,
when you tell someone your idea,
they should be able to feel it,
because when people see an advertisement for your product,
they don't have enough time to go through
deep, rigorous analysis of why that problem
that you're solving is going to be important to them,
and why it's going to improve their life, no,
they need to feel that, right?
Our subconscious processes more quickly than our conscious does.
This is what leads to a scrolling past a video
versus seeing it and immediately downloading the product
and paying for it thereafter.
Okay, so identify the fundamental human drive
that the problem you're solving relates to.
This is why we have this column here, right?
We're solving dating, we're solving health,
discipline, spirituality, success, social validation, right?
We're not abstracting out these terms too much
when we're listing them here,
we're keeping it very, very simple, very straightforward.
Okay, identify the fundamental human drive,
build as close to it as possible,
you could abstract out this,
splitting a dinner bill evenly,
you could say, well, this actually helps with reproduction
because if you save a little bit of money
and there's increased fairness in the world,
then you are going to be able to position yourself
as a higher status person, or you save cash,
or maybe the friend group likes you more
because you come up with these creative solutions
and therefore everyone wants to be the person
that introduces this product to the friend group
'cause you'll get social credit for that,
thereby it enables you to get more action.
Way too much, way too much.
Build as close to it, build as close, simple.
Finally, don't fear starting small on a big problem
when we were building RizGPT,
when I built UMAX, Kali-i, people often said that
they were very small advances
for RizGPT, it's like, well, who's actually gonna pay
to have an AI respond to them?
The answer is a lot of people.
For UMAX, it's like, yeah, dude,
to get a rating of how attractive I am,
I don't fucking need that.
That doesn't actually help me become more attractive.
A lot of people still like that product, right?
A lot of people think that it's gonna help them
sort of advance, which it does, right?
It provides recommendations on how to improve.
You might say, well, I can just look at myself in the mirror
and I understand, but not everybody does.
Finally, Kali-i, everyone's like, well,
AI calorie tracking, the current calorie trackers
already work, and it can't be that accurate.
The current calorie trackers have a lot of friction
and minor increases, I would say even like
two X increase in speed to track the calories
results in people across the board
being able to achieve their fitness goals
with a much higher degree of probability of success, right?
Even though there may be slight decreases in accuracy,
it will enable people that previously struggled
with the consistency of calorie tracking
to be able to lose weight or gain weight,
which are of paramount importance in humans' lives.
Okay, that is pretty much it on human psychology.
These are simple truths, but they are truths nonetheless
that I think are not adequately represented.
The importance of the biological imperative,
building close to the major problems
that people experience rather than
over into intellectualized abstractions,
solving these massive problems even in a minor way,
and then making sure that people can feel it
without having to think about it.
Okay, next up, you have an assignment
to apply some of the principles and ideas
that we spoke about in this lesson and the previous.
In the analysis of the case studies
listed in the first lesson, in the next unit,
we are going to go over actually identifying
the very specific problems in your life
as well as on social media.
So stay tuned for that if you have any questions
on the assignment.
Figure it out, I believe in you.
All right, peace out.